[MUSIC]
So we've talked about different
aspects of the Arduino environment,
talked about the Arduino development
board, looked at a schematic.
We've talked about the Arduino IDE,
and basics of how to use it.
Now, on top of that,
the third aspect of the arduino are the
shields, these are hardware shields.
So, these are add on hardware together
with libraries that control and
access that add on hardware, and we'll
talk about that and how useful it is.
So Arduino Shields
are basically add-on boards.
Daughterboards is another term for this.
That interface with some other device,
usually an integrated circuit, but
it can be anything.
So the idea is that there are often
devices that you want to connect your
Arduino up to that are complicated,
okay, and
require an integrated circuit,
an IC, to access them.
So, take an ethernet controller, okay?
An ethernet jack.
That's a complicated interface.
If you want to talk to an ethernet jack,
you can't just wire straight to it.
You need to talk to
an ethernet controller chip.
A chip that is made to speak
the ethernet protocol.
And you need to wire that ethernet
controller chip up to your chip.
And it's a complicated thing,
and you need to control it.
The datasheet for
the control chip could be 150 pages long,
and you gotta understand that.
It's a complicated process.
So what happens instead is an ethernet
shield is a board that already has
the ethernet control chip, say, wired on
there, so you don't have to do any wiring.
All you have to do is
just take this board, and
you stack it directly
on top of the Adruino.
So the Adruino has
the pins along the side.
Has the holes along the sides
that connect to the pins.
So the shield is the same size and
it's got pins underneath it so
you can just stack them on top and
push this shield right into those holes.
And then the wiring is all done for you.
You don't have to figure out
how to wire it to the arduino.
You just stack it and it's wired.
So the hardware part of it,
the wiring part, is all done.
And in addition to the wiring being
done there are library functions.
So, every shield comes with
a set of library functions.
Pre-written functions that you
as a programmer can call to
do things with the component.
So, like with an ethernet jack,
ethernet card, ethernet shield.
You would have functions that allow
you to access the Internet and
things like this that are simple, right?
You don't have to understand anything
about the ethernet controller and
the complexities of it.
You could just call this function and it
will do the task that it's supposed to do.
So the hardware shields come together with
these libraries that make it easy for
the programmer to access.
So, open source hardware, these designs
are generally open source shield,
but you can purchase them pre-made for
the most part.
A large variety available.
A whole lot of shields to do, Arduina has
been around for a while, people love it.
There are shields to interface with
all sorts of different circuitry.
It's a big advantage of
the argument of platforms.
It's a big reason why people use it,
because they can use
different types of hardware, exotic types
of hardware, that are built into a shield,
but they don't have to understand
the details of the hardware.
They can just call the library functions,
and be happy, and
things are easy for them.
So here are some shields.
There's a complete list at shieldlist.org,
but there are lots of lists, so
just Google around out there.
But we can see here,
we've got the ethernet shield.
I got that one first, and
we've already seen that one.
It allows you,
it's a wired ethernet shield.
So if you want to connect to
the Internet through a wired connection,
you'd take one of these shields,
pop it on top of your Arduino and
then you can connect an ethernet wire
up to that and connect to a network.
Next is the color LCD shield.
So Arduinos don't have screens.
So, say you want it to have a screen.
So, you want a color LCD and the shield
has a color LCD screen built into it and
it ethernet, it has underneath,
you can't see it there but
there's a processor that's connected to
the shield that speaks to the shield.
And it speaks to the screen, and
allows you to control the screen.
And then there's a synthesizer shield,
a music synthesizer, so
if you wanna generate music,
nice music, you can take this shield.
It actually has jacks to
connect to a speaker and
you can talk to speakers and play nice
music, MIDI music and things like this.
These are just a few but
there's a long list of shields and
they are a real benefit
of the Arduino platform.
Now the great thing about these
shields is that they come with
these libraries that make their use easy.
So I'm just giving you a taste of
what these libraries do for you.
So let's take the ethernet shield.
There are several functions
in this library, and
if you go to arduino.cc,
you can see all of its library functions.
But here's one called connect.
Now Connect, iy takes an IP address and
a port number.
So the IP address, whatever the internet
address is that you want to connect to
plus the port number that you want to
connect on, you pass those as arguments
and this function connect will open up a
connection with some remote device, okay?
So at the high level, it's
a straightforward thing that you wanna
do to start a connection
with a remote device.
Now it's very easy to do with this library
function, you just call connect with
the address and the port number and
bam the connection is open.
But in reality it's actually
a much more complicated
operation that has to be preformed, so
you can see that code that I have there,
that's the implementation
of the connect function.
So all these libraries are open source so
you can go to rwcc and
look and find this implementation.
That's where I grabbed this code.
I went and grabbed this code.
It's an implementation of the connect
function, the connect method, and
you see it there and it's complicated.
Okay I'm not gonna go through it and
describe it.
That's not the whole function actually.
That's less than half of the function.
I just took the beginning part.
Right?
But it's a complicated piece of code.
And to understand it you have to
understand details of ethernet,
what it's doing, you have to understand
the ethernet controller and how it works.
So these are things that regular people
don't generally wanna understand.
They just wanna open up a connection.
So this library takes care
of all those details.
You never have to look at this code.
You're looking at it now, but you're
never gonna have to look at it again.
You could just call connect and
bam there's a connection so, you can call
the function and ignore all the details,
and there's a nice abstraction for you.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]